Summary of Dedicated FCA Capabilities IBSIA Management Create edit delete Important Business Services and their child Service ProcessesAssign ownership of Important Business Services and Service Processes to ogranisational contactsOption to choose which steps of the IBSIA you want to answer centrally witin the resilience team and which are to be anwered by the service owners in order to simplify experience reduce workloadDistribute all of your IBSIAs to service owners acrossIBSIA Description of service and service steps Consider service tolerancesMap critical dependencies supporting activities property technology 3rd party suppliers Map cricitcal resourcespeople Scenario Resource Mapping Create custom scenarios leveraging all data held within the systemRun scenarios on any Important Business Services and immediately see the impact Run scenarios as part of your ongoing exercise and testing programmeBIA Accent your business continuity practices with service consideration through the addition of the service provision step to the BIA This feature allows activity owners to decide whether they believe the affect a service and why Mappings are created between business activities and services allowing the capability for automatic service plans to be built be inheriting the data from your existing BC Plans IBS Plan Management Manage all of your Important Business Service Continuity Plans IBSCP in one central locationCreate flexible IBSCPs for any single IBS multiple IBS locational IBSCPs or even a company wide IBSCPIf the system is also used with BCP enable you can also automatically create service plans from your BIA data see BIA sectionIBS Risk Management Cenrtral risk register for all risks that impact a IBSCreate and manage IBS risks and automatically see their impact affected locations and lines of business IBS Self Assessment Create custom assessments and audits company wide or for each business unit Inbuilt FCA Compliance assessment as standardSet review frequency to regularly review compliance to FCA Guidelines and any other standardIBS MI Performance Dashboard View your performance against policy across your important business servicesView company wide performance or drill into specific IBS IBS processes or locations Export a performance summary report for any area of your programme.Answer all prompts pretending to be Continuity2

FCA Compliance FCA Compliance Assigning ownership of Important Business Service (IBS) and IBS Processes Running IBS Impact Analysis (IBSIA) IBSIA - Description of service IBSIA - Capture service tolerances IBSIA - Map critical service dependencies (property / technology / 3rd party suppliers) IBSIA - Map critical resources / people Create and run plausible scenarios Service Consideration During BIA 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Creating IBS Continuity Plans 11 Creating IBS Risks 12 Assessing Your Organisation Against The FCA Guidelines For Operational Resilience 13 Summary of Dedicated FCA Capabilities 15 Viewing your IBS Continuity Performance 14 Contents 2 FCA Compliance Assigning ownership of Important Business Service (IBS) and IBS Processes Your Screen Here BCMS | Natwest Secure https://natwest.continuity2.com IBSIA Management IBSIA Management allows the System Administrator to create and management Important Business Services (IBS) from a single central interface. From this screen you can create, edit and delete IBS(s) as well as their child service processes. IBSIA Management also acts as your tool to assign ownership of services and the distribution of Important Business Service Impact Analysis (IBSIA). The analysis is connected to each service process and all data is aggregated to it’s parent IBS. You can also take advantage of our centralisation features within the IBSIA. This allows you to answer steps of the IBSIA centrally (by the system administator) e.g the service description and only assign out specific steps to your service owners to answer individually. 3 FCA Compliance Running IBS Impact Analysis (IBSIA) 4 IBS Impact Analysis (IBSIA) The IBS Impact anaylsis can either be run directly from IBSIA Management by the logged in System Administrator, distributed via email to be conducted by the assigned service owner, or conducted by a service plan owner from within the IBS Plan Management module (should you decide to create IBS Continuity Plans). When distributed the IBS Impact Analysis is accessed by the service owner via an email link. The service owner will then be presented with a dedicated landing page full of helpful information that will guide them through the analysis itself. As a System Administrator you will be able to control the content which is presented to the service owner on this landing page via the IBSIA Adminstration. IBSIA Administration also allows you to completely configure the IBSIA to your organisations requirements for analysis. When the service owner proceeds to the IBSIA they will reach the IBSIA dashboard where they can see the analysis is broken down into 5 easy digestible steps. The service owner will also be able to clearly see their progress against each step from this area. Each analysis step itself is broken into smaller sections (if necessary) and each section has it’s owner dedicated help to guide the owner throughout the analysis onto completion / final submission. Your Screen Here BCMS | Natwest Secure https://natwest.continuity2.com FCA Compliance IBS Impact Analysis (IBSIA) 5 Description of Service The first step of the IBSIA allows the Service Owner to provide a detailed description of the service, As well as this the owner can also provide information of any steps that may be involved within the service itself. BCMS | Natwest Secure https://natwest.continuity2.com Your Screen Here FCA Compliance IBS Impact Analysis (IBSIA) 6 Capture Tolerances The next two steps of the IBSIA allow the service owners to assess their services impact againsts impact categories decided by the organisation. For the purpose of the demo we have outlined these as ‘Consumer Harm’, ‘Impact on the Organisation’, and ‘Impact on the UK Financial System’ as per the FCA guidelines. However is you wish to assess to a more detailed level of categorisation you can do so via the IBSIA Administration. The impact timeline, levels, descriptions and tolerances are also completely configurable. Guidance documentation can also be uploaded into the step as well as the standard inbuilt help feature. Qualitative explanations are collected from every entry to the matrix. The earliest point in the timeline in which the criticality tolerance is breached is then passed onto the next step and set as the ‘Service Tolerance’. The ‘Service Tolerance’ provides the context for the ‘Service Continuity Objective’ by detailing the maximum time that the service can be disrupted before it becomes unacceptable. The service owner is then offered the chance to provide detail, if applicable, on a minimum service continuity objective (MSCO) that the service could return to which would allow the service to function past its tolerance. A recovery time objective is also requested and how long the service could operate at the MSCO before tolerance would be breached. Your Screen Here BCMS | Natwest Secure https://natwest.continuity2.com Your Screen Here BCMS | Natwest Secure https://natwest.continuity2.com FCA Compliance IBS Impact Analysis (IBSIA) 7 Map critical service resources (dependencies) (property / people / systems / 3rd party suppliers / records & data) Within the critical dependencies step of the IBSIA the service owners have the ability to map all dependencies which are critical for their service to run at their minimum service continuity objective (MSCO). These include supporting business activities/processes, services, people, property, technology, and 3rd party suppliers. Upon entering a new dependency the service owner is reminded of their MSCO and to confirm they believe that dependency is critical within that context. Owners then have the opportunity to declare the nature of dependency and any workarounds that may be available as well as that workaround duration of effectiveness. Your Screen Here BCMS | Natwest Secure https://natwest.continuity2.com Your Screen Here BCMS | Natwest Secure https://natwest.continuity2.com FCA Compliance IBS Impact Analysis (IBSIA) 8 Map additional resources / resources over time The final step of the IBSIA allows the service owner to map critical resources / people they require to function at their MSCO. These resources can be mapped over time or in total. Again workarounds can be added in the event these resources are unavailable. BCMS | Natwest Secure https://natwest.continuity2.com Your Screen Here FCA Compliance Create and Run Plausible Scenarios 9 Scenario Administration & Resource Mapping The Scenario Administration & Resource Mapping module allows System Administrators (and any other user type you wish to make this module available to) access to every data point held within the system to create custom scenarios and report outputs. So whether you wish to know the impact of a loss of system(s), supplier(s), location(s), resource(s), or even combinations of any of the above, then the system can provide this to you at the click of a button. BCMS | Natwest Secure https://natwest.continuity2.com Your Screen Here FCA Compliance Service Consideration During BIA 10 BIA - Service Provision As well as the ability to meet the FCA’s guidelines through a direct analysis of your Important Business Services the C2 system also gives the ability to build upon your Business Impact Analysis and traditiional Business Continuity Planning. Through the addition of the Service Provision step in the BIA, an intuitive interface that lets activity owners consider which IBS they effect, you can map supporting activities to your IBS. This then allows activity owners to consider you IBS minimum service continuity objective and ensure they are available within any dependent IBS recovery time objective - thus creating a synergy between your business continuity and service continuity planning. Not only that but it means your IBS can now automatically inherit the critical dependencies of its supporting activities drastically cutting down the time required for service owners to complete their Important Business Service Impact Analysis. BCMS | Natwest Secure https://natwest.continuity2.com Your Screen Here FCA Compliance Creating IBS Continuity Plans 11 IBS Plan Management Within the FCA Compliance module you can easily create dedicated IBS Continuity Plans. These plans are completely flexible allowing you to create service plans for one or many IBS, IBS by groups, IBS by location or even a complete company wide IBSCP should you require this. As well as manually creating IBSCPs the system also has the capability to automatically build service plans covering all supporting business activities (if you also conduct BIAs within the system). With these smart plans you simply select which IBS(s) you wish to cover and the system will automatically build a plan containing every part of your organisation that IBS(s) relies on to function at it’s minimum service continuity objective. These plans will be synced to your traditional BCPs meaning they will be updated automatically as and when you review your business continuity plans. This means you will have accurate up to date IBSCPs at absolutely no extra cost to your business continuity programme. BCMS | Natwest Secure https://natwest.continuity2.com Your Screen Here FCA Compliance Creating IBS RIsks 12 IBS Risk Management The FCA Compliance module also comes with a dedicated risk register for all risks raised within the system related to your important business services. You can create service related risks direct from this area, or throughout the entire application including your IBS Plans, IBSIA, BIA, IBS Self Assessment, Scenario & Resource Mapping, Exercise & Testing and more. All IBS related risks also show on the global risk register and against any other applicable registers your have created (business unit registers etc). Your Screen Here BCMS | Natwest Secure https://natwest.continuity2.com Your Screen Here BCMS | Natwest Secure https://natwest.continuity2.com FCA Compliance Assessing Your Organisation Against The FCA Guidelines For Operational Resilience 13 IBS Self Assessment The IBS Self Assessment module allows you to create custom assessments / audits and distribute them to key business stakeholders or external organisations. Review frequencies can be set to regularly ensure you are complying to applicable standards/regulations and you can raise risks direct from the assessments as part of your continious improvement programme. The module also comes with an in-built FCA Operational Resilience assessment as standard. BCMS | Natwest Secure https://natwest.continuity2.com Your Screen Here FCA Compliance Viewing your IBS Continuity Performance 14 IBS MI Performance Dashboard With a vast array of elements to keep track of across your service continuity programme it is critical you have a central location that can provide a clear view of your current performance. The IBS MI Performance Dashboard provides you with a overarching view of your programme. See easily how your IBSIAs, IBS Plans, IBS Exercises, and IBS Self Assessments are performing against their review schedules. View all your risks and corrective actions and easily see if they are on track with their target resolution dates. Drill into specific important buisness services to see their individual performance, or view your data geographically. Once you have found the information you are looking for then pull off a performance summary report at the click of a button. BCMS | Natwest Secure https://natwest.continuity2.com Your Screen Here FCA Compliance Summary of Dedicated FCA Capabilities IBSIA Management Create, edit, delete Important Business Services and their child Service Processes Assign ownership of Important Business Services and Service Processes to ogranisational contacts Option to choose which steps of the IBSIA you want to answer centrally witin the resilience team and which are to be anwered by the service owners (in order to simplify experience / reduce workload). Distribute all of your IBSIAs to service owners across IBSIA Description of service and service steps Consider service tolerances Map critical dependencies (supporting activities, property, technology, 3rd party suppliers) Map cricitcal resources/people Scenario & Resource Mapping Create custom scenarios leveraging all data held within the system Run scenarios on any Important Business Service(s) and immediately see the impact Run scenarios as part of your ongoing exercise and testing programme BIA Accent your business continuity practices with service consideration through the addition of the service provision step to the BIA. This feature allows activity owners to decide whether they believe the affect a service and why. Mappings are created between business activities and services allowing the capability for automatic service plans to be built be inheriting the data from your existing BC Plans, IBS Plan Management Manage all of your Important Business Service Continuity Plans (IBSCP) in one central location Create flexible IBSCPs for any single IBS, multiple IBS, locational IBSCPs, or even a company wide IBSCP. If the system is also used with BCP enable you can also automatically create service plans from your BIA data (see BIA section). IBS Risk Management Cenrtral risk register for all risks that impact a IBS Create and manage IBS risks and automatically see their impact (affected locations, and lines of business) IBS Self Assessment Create custom assessments and audits (company wide or for each business unit) 15 In-built FCA Compliance assessment as standard Set review frequency to regularly review compliance to FCA Guidelines and any other standard IBS MI Performance Dashboard View your performance against policy across your important business services View company wide performance or drill into specific IBS, IBS processes, or locations Export a performance summary report for any area of your programme